Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, mystery,
sci-fi film called "Sphere."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
When the U.S. Navy discovers an unidentified
vessel under the Pacific Ocean, they assemble
a team of experts to investigate the craft.
A psychologist named Dr. Norman Goodman arrives
on a ship in the middle of the ocean, thinking
he'll be treating plane crash survivors, but
he's puzzled when he sees a few familiar faces.
As navy personnel takes him to his quarters,
he comes across Dr. Ted Fielding, a physicist,
and Dr. Beth Halperin, a marine biologist.
After waiting for three hours, U.S. Navy Capt.
Harold Barnes knocks on his doors to take
him to the briefing room.
Along the way, Barnes tells Norman that they
have found a spacecraft.
Barnes hints that Norman was contacted because
of a report he wrote on Unidentified Life
Forms, noting that the document has become
their bible.
Inside the briefing room, Barnes informs the
team that the spacecraft was buried under
eight yards of coral.
Beth estimates from the coral growth that
the ship has been under the ocean for about
300 years.
Dr. Harry Adams, a mathematician, deduces
that the vessel crashed in 1709.
The Navy believes that there could be a life
form inside the ship, so they contacted the
group because they were mentioned in Norman's
report about the effects of an alien invasion.
Beth will assess the physiology of the U.L.F.,
while Harry would attempt communication with
the aliens via mathematics.
Fielding will try to determine the alien's
location in outer space, while Norman will
help them deal with stressful situations when
they come across the U.L.F.
Barnes notifies them that the Navy's sonar
has detected a low-level hum, indicating that
something is running inside the craft.
Harry has some apprehensions about going to
the spacecraft, but Ted tells him that it
will be the most significant discovery since
Copernicus.
Before going underwater, Norman apologizes
to Harry for putting his name in the report.
Norman discloses that he just picked the names
of people he knew when he wrote it.
He confesses that his report was bogus, but
he couldn't tell Barnes because he will be
indicted for fraud.
Harry agrees to keep his secret.
Soon, a submarine takes them to the Habitat,
a structure assembled by the Navy to serve
as a base while they investigate the spacecraft.
When they get near the bottom, Ted is astonished
by the size of the spacecraft.
Outside the Habitat, a navy dive team is preparing
a robot to open the doors to the spaceship.
The team leaves the Habitat and walks toward
the spaceship.
When they get to the airlock, they couldn't
get it open, so Ted uses a hammer and a chisel
to pry it open.
Harry notices the chip on the door after Ted
forces it open.
He's baffled that the craft, made of a strong
titanium alloy, wasn't damaged by the crash,
yet it chips when Ted strikes it with simple
tools.
Beth notices heat emanating from the door,
so Barnes prompts them to get back.
The team is surprised when the door opens
by itself.
When they get in, Barnes tells them to keep
their helmets on.
Soon, Beth notices some footprints on the
floor and concludes that someone has been
there.
The team splits up into two squads to explore
more of the craft.
After separating from the rest of the team,
Norman confesses to Beth that he made up the
report and borrowed some of the concepts from
writers like Rod Serling and Isaac Asimov.
When they step onto a platform, it takes them
to another floor.
Beth screams in shock when she comes across
a corpse sitting on a chair.
She concludes that it is human, and it died
from blunt force trauma.
They see him holding a snack called "Smokehouse
Almonds," so they assume they must be inside
an American spaceship.
When Beth starts tinkering with a console,
she discovers that the records are in English.
On the flight logs, they notice an item marked
"Unknown Entry Event."
When they press it, a hologram appears, showing
a spaceship entering a black hole.
When Norman reports what they've discovered,
Barnes tells them that they've found something
even more mind-boggling.
Barnes takes them to the cargo hold, where
they find a massive sphere.
Barnes suspects that the strange object could
be a trap, so he tells them that he'll put
a video camera on it.
As they stare at it, Norman notices that the
team is not showing up on the sphere's reflective
surface.
Back inside the Habitat, they discuss how
an American spaceship with advanced technology
ended up in the bottom of the ocean.
Ted surmises that the spacecraft didn't crash,
noting the lack of damage.
He believes that it got caught into a black
hole and arrived 300 years ago from another
time.
Barnes notifies them that there's a storm
on the surface, so they have to go back up.
Ted still wants to explore the spacecraft,
but Barnes points out that they didn't find
any U.L.F., so they are no longer needed.
Inside their quarters, Harry predicts that
they're probably going to die before they
reach the surface.
He thinks that the computer flight log recorded
the ship's descent into the black hole as
an unknown entry event because the team could
not report their discovery to the Navy.
As he goes to bed, he expresses his wish to
get inside the sphere.
Before the team could return to the surface,
the alarm suddenly goes off.
When Barnes looks at the video monitors, he
sees Harry approaching the sphere.
Norman tells Barnes about Harry's wish to
go inside.
While Harry stares at the shining ball, his
reflection becomes visible on the surface.
Barnes suddenly notices that Harry has disappeared,
but it didn't seem like he entered the sphere.
Barnes tells Norman that they won't return
to the surface until they get Harry back from
the spacecraft.
Norman wears a diving suit and enters the
spacecraft.
As he stares at the sphere, he suddenly sees
Harry appear on the ground.
He tries to wake Harry up, but Harry doesn’t
respond even though his vital signs are normal.
When Norman looks up at the object again,
he sees his reflection emerge.
The lights at the station suddenly go out
and the video feed from the spacecraft gets
cut.
When it goes back up, Barnes realizes that
they are running on internal power, which
means that the submarine has turned back.
He tells the team that they're going to be
staying there for a while.
Norman takes Harry back to the Habitat, still
unconscious.
As the crew waits to hear from the surface,
Fletcher, a navy personnel assigned to maintain
the Habitat, takes a video storage unit to
the mini-sub to reset the timer.
Barnes explains to Ted that they have to press
the reset button every 12 hours to let the
Navy know that they are still alive.
If the timer doesn't reset, the mini-sub will
automatically go up to the surface.
After resetting the timer on the mini-sub,
she notices numerous jellyfish swimming in
the area.
She starts to panic when the jellyfish starts
to stick to her dive suit.
Soon, she feels the jellyfish inside her body.
Barnes tells her to keep moving, but the jellyfish
swarm towards her.
Soon the water gets inside her suit and she
drowns.
As Beth examines Fletcher, Norman tells her
that he was once attacked by jellyfish when
he was young.
He says that he's been afraid of jellyfish
since then.
Beth soon realizes that the creatures that
attacked Fletcher weren't like any jellyfish
she's ever seen.
Later on, Barnes calls Norman to ask whether
Beth is mentally stable, noting that she once
tried to take her own life.
When Norman refuses to give away any information,
Barnes castigates him for including her in
his report while knowing about her mental
history.
Barnes fears that Beth will put the entire
operation in jeopardy if she loses control
of her mind, but Norman assures him that she's
okay.
As they continue to argue, Ted interrupts
them to let them know Harry's awake.
In the kitchen, Barnes asks if Harry can
remember what happened inside the sphere.
Harry confirms that he went inside, despite
the lack of an opening on the object.
Harry compliments Norman for his cooking,
so Norman hands him a plate of calamari.
But as soon as he learns what it is, he starts
gasping for air.
Ted performs the Heimlich maneuver on him,
but he says that he's not choking.
He tells them that he just doesn't like squid.
Later, Barnes asks Ted to go to the control
room because there's something wrong with
the computers.
While Barnes tries to figure out the problem,
Harry arrives in the room and points out that
there's a pattern in the numbers showing on
the screen.
Harry tells Ted to check if it's binary and
suggests decrypting the numbers with the configuration
of the keyboard.
After deciphering the message, they learn
that it comes from a sender named Jerry.
Barnes doubts that it came from an alien because
the message seems to be infantile.
Harry points out that it's a perfect message
because it's concise and non-threatening.
When Jerry tells them that he's happy, Norman
starts to worry because he has no idea what
the entity will do when he gets mad.
When Norman starts hearing thumping outside
the ship, he asks Edmunds, another personnel
on Habitat, if she knows what it is.
After getting no response from Edmunds, he
reports the strange noise to Barnes.
Barnes tells him that Edmunds appears to be
outside the Habitat.
When Beth and Norman look for her, they see
her body on the side of the station and discover
that it was her foot banging on the Habitat
wall.
When Beth takes a closer look, she's startled
by the condition of her body.
She tells Norman that Edmunds' body has been
pulverized.
Meanwhile, Harry is in his room reading 20,000
Leagues Under the Sea by Jules Verne.
As Norman and Beth bring Edmund's body back
inside the station, eggs start to fall to
the ground.
Barnes suddenly notices something moving on
the sonar, so he tells Norman and Beth to
hurry because the object is moving closer.
When Beth and Norman reach the station, the
object suddenly disappears from the sonar.
Norman wants to talk to Jerry about the horrific
incident outside, but Barnes tells him that
they need a game plan.
When they get inside the control room, Jerry
asks Norman what a game plan is.
Norman realizes that Jerry can hear what they're
saying even when they're not in the control
room.
When Jerry stops responding, the unknown object
appears in the sonar again.
They notice that more eggs are falling outside
the Habitat.
When Beth asks if they have any defenses to
protect the sensor grid, Barnes notes that
they have a high-voltage current on the skin
of the Habitat.
However, a fire breaks out every time they
turn it on.
The creature, which appears to be a giant
squid, starts banging against the Habitat
repeatedly.
Harry remains asleep in his quarter despite
the noise.
When Barnes realizes that the pressure is
dropping inside the Habitat, he instructs
Ted to go to the control room to set it back
to normal.
As Ted turns the valve, a jolt of electricity
slams him to the wall, knocking him unconscious.
Norman goes to the room and turns the valve,
but the creature keeps attacking.
Barnes realizes that the creature won't let
go, so he instructs Norman to activate the
high-voltage current.
After pulling the lever, the banging stops,
but a fire soon breaks out in the communications
room.
As they scramble to extinguish the fire, the
emergency doors get activated.
Ted helps the team put out the flames as soon
as he becomes conscious.
Barnes jams a door with a box to prevent it
from locking him in a hallway.
But when he tries to get out, the box slips,
and the door crushes him.
As Ted extinguishes the fire in the kitchen,
a part of the ceiling falls on his head and
debris pins him to the floor.
He tells Norman to get out as the fire starts
to build up below him.
Ted then succumbs to the flames, and the fire
extinguishes itself.
Norman tries to contact Jerry again to ask
him who put the fire out.
Jerry asks him if he liked the giant squid
and tells him that he can manifest more.
Norman explains that the manifestations are
killing people.
He warns the entity that he'll end up alone
again if people on the ship continue to die.
The entity tells Norman to stop calling him
Jerry.
Norman goes to his quarters and finds Harry
reading Verne's book.
When Norman asks Harry if he knew about the
attack, he says he slept through it because
he was tired.
Harry tells Norman that he loves the Jules
Verne book, but he can't get past page 87
because it is too scary.
Norman notices that Harry is oddly calm despite
the catastrophic events within the Habitat.
He informs Harry that Barnes and Ted are dead,
adding that most of their reserve gas is gone.
Beth reminds them that they need to reset
the mini-sub.
Norman volunteers to go and tells Beth that
he doesn't want Harry anywhere near the mini-sub
because he suspects that Harry is somehow
responsible for the incidents.
Beth tells Norman that he'll watch over Harry
from the control room.
Norman resets the mini-sub and heads back
to the Habitat.
But on the way, he notices bubbles coming
out of his suit.
He calls Beth for help, saying he can't breathe,
but she's not in the control room.
Harry guides him and tells him he has a faulty
valve, but he'll still be able to breathe.
Norman eventually reaches the ladder leading
to the Habitat, but a snake-like creature
attacks him.
Before long, the creature leaves him, allowing
him to get back inside.
Moments later, they notice Beth going inside
the spacecraft, so they ask her what she's
doing.
She tells them that she went out looking for
food because they ran out.
Harry tells Norman that there's plenty of
food in the kitchen.
Norman gets angry with Beth, scolding her
for not keeping watch on him as he was resetting
the mini-sub.
He then points out that they still have enough
food.
When she finds that the fridge and the cupboard
are filled with food, she tells them that
she didn't see them earlier.
As Norman continues to castigate Beth, she
asks Norman if Harry told him what happened
inside the sphere.
When Norman asks Beth if she went inside the
sphere, she leaves the room without answering
the question.
Norman picks up the Jules Verne book from
the ground but notices that Harry is still
reading his copy.
He then finds more copies of the book in the
cupboards.
Norman goes to the control room to ask Jerry
what's inside the sphere.
The entity tells him to stop calling him Jerry.
Later, Norman tries to decipher the code and
realizes that Harry made an error in decoding
the numbers.
Meanwhile, Beth goes outside of the Habitat
and switches on an explosive device.
When Norman finally decrypts the numbers,
he learns that the entity's name is Harry,
not Jerry.
Norman tells Beth that Jerry is Harry, and
that Harry seems to be manifesting the strange
creatures around them.
Norman asks her to read page 87 of the Jules
Verne book, which talks about a monster with
27 feet long tentacles.
Norman points out that Harry hates squid,
and he got scared when he read the passage
from the book.
Norman believes that Harry's imaginations
manifest in the real world because he went
into the sphere.
Norman suggests putting Harry in a deep unconscious
sleep to keep him from manifesting any more
creatures.
He and Beth go through the ship's medical
supplies to find a drug that would knock Harry
unconscious.
While Harry is lying in bed, Norman holds
him down while Beth injects him with the sedative.
Harry goes to sleep right away.
They soon receive a transmission from the
surface, telling them that the weather conditions
have returned to normal and they can return
to the surface within six hours.
As Norman brushes his teeth on his flooded
bathroom, a snake suddenly slithers inside
his pants.
Beth arrives as he screams in fear.
Beth then grabs the reptile and tells him
that it was a Belcher snake.
She says that it's the most poisonous snake
in the world, but they're only dangerous at
night.
Beth soon tells Norman to meet her at the
lab, but when he gets there, she locks him
in.
She instructs him to inject himself with the
sedative because he's been manifesting the
snakes.
Beth also points out that the jellyfish came
out of Norman's mind because it was one of
his childhood fears.
Beth further reminds him that he's the only
one who could be manifesting the creatures
because Harry is in a dreamless sleep.
As Norman continually refuses her demand,
Beth takes the gas off the room.
As the lab floods with water, Norman grabs
a canister of oxygen on the floor.
Norman manages to open a hatch and swim out
of the Habitat.
As Beth watches him on the monitors, she sees
a video of Barnes asking her what qualifies
her for their secret operation.
She also sees footage of Norman berating her
for almost getting him killed when he went
to the mini-sub.
Beth gets anxious and runs out of the control
room.
When Norman gets back inside, he hears Beth
crying inside a hatch, so he goes down and
talks to her.
Norman deduces that Beth also went into the
sphere.
Harry sees them and asks them why they knocked
him out.
Norman tells him that they all went into the
sphere, and everything they're thinking is
manifesting into reality.
Norman speculates that the astronauts also
did the same.
He thinks the spaceship crew went in one by
one and became so paranoid that they killed
each other.
They soon hear an announcement saying that
the explosives outside the Habitat have been
activated, and they only 13 minutes to evacuate.
Beth explains that the explosives were supposed
to be used to blow up the corals, but she
used them as a defense perimeter around the
ship.
She thinks that something from the sphere
has triggered it, but she soon realizes that
her mind probably activated it because she
was thinking of wanting to die.
Harry tells her that the explosive will disintegrate
everything because of the liquid hydrogen
in the spacecraft.
Norman prompts them to run to the mini-sub,
but when they get inside the vehicle, they
couldn't turn it on.
They find themselves instantly transported
inside the spacecraft.
They try to find their way out, but they appear
to be running in circles.
Realizing that they might not get out, Harry
tells them to leave him behind.
When they end up in front of the sphere, Norman's
reflection instructs him to push the button.
Norman tells them to let go of their thoughts.
When they end up in the mini-sub again, Norman
pushes the button.
The mini-sub soon becomes operational and
starts moving towards the surface.
Harry fears that they're moving too slow,
and they'll be sucked back down when the bomb
explodes.
As the mini-sub reaches the surface, explosion
destroys the Habitat.
After going through the decompression process,
they discuss what they will tell the Navy.
Harry points out that no one would believe
them if they admit the truth.
Harry surmises that the sphere is destroyed,
but Beth points out that they still have the
power.
Beth worries that she might manifest weird
things in her sleep, and she fears that their
power would end up in the wrong hands.
Norman tells her that they are the wrong hands,
noting that they've been manifesting destructive
thoughts.
Harry hints that they could use their power
to forget what they discovered.
Norman wonders if they want to forget, knowing
that they came across the most significant
discovery in history.
Norman asserts that it's hard to let go of
the power when they know it can make their
dreams come true.
Harry tells them they're not ready for that
kind of power.
Harry points out that the Navy personnel will
soon enter the room to interrogate them, so
they join hands and think about forgetting
about their power.
As they concentrate, the sphere rises from
the bottom of the ocean and flies into the
sky.
When they open their eyes, Norman and Harry
are puzzled about holding each other's hands.